= Overview

<tt>rake doc:app</tt>

The application supports accounting, regulatory reporting, light trade analytics and risk management duties.

Information is extracted from files provided by the CME and ABN.

= Institutional Interactions

* The Commodity Futures Trading Commission
* The Chicago Mercantile Exchange Group
* ABN AMRO Clearing Corp.
* Quandl Inc.
* Linode LLC

= Software Dependencies

* Ruby version 2.2.2
* Rails version 4.2.3
* PostgreSQL version 9.5
* RabbitMQ version 3.6
* Linux - Ubuntu 16.04 LTS

= Back Office Use

== Statement

The fundamental accounting document is the statement. It represents all account activity including execution
reports, position netting, positions, charges, adjustments, and money balances.

Driving abstractions are account and claim. A claim is a multi-party (usually bilateral) contract that defines
a collection of rules (obligations and/or expectations) by which claim valued is determined for each party. An account
is a kind-of claim container.

Parties enter and exit claims with associated account consequences, e.g., accrual of transaction expenses and the
recognition of claim value variation.

=== Statement Components

==== DealLegFill - Execution Reports - Fills

Execution reports are the consequence of order execution through pit or electronic order matching. The statement
fragment shown below notes the account and claims for which reports were received on a particular day - the Posted date.
Reports may be posted for days other than that on which they were traded - showing different Posted and Traded dates

The quantity of claims exchanged is shown and Bot, Sld and Net. The statement fragment shows two claims: 2 Year Note
futures with expirations in June and September of 2017. The account was a buyer and seller of both claims but left with
a net position to receive 32 of the June 2 Years and deliviver 32 of the September 2 Years.

Two prices are represented in the statement fragment: Traded and Decimal. Some claims are traded with fractional prices,
some with decimal prices. The statement shows both because the price traded is visible basis for the exchange. The
decimal price is the used for accounting computation and derived from an conventional interpreation of the traded price.

The September 2 Year activity shows two Traded prices: 108-070 and 108-072. The digits to the left side of the dash is
"the handle" and those to the right called "the tail". The handle, in this instance, is the whole number percentage of
par that will be paid for the Note. The tail portion is the fractional percentage of part to be paid. The tail is
expressed in 32 in terms of 32nds with the right-most digit representing a fraction of a 32nd. The fractional
representation of 070 means 7 32nds and 072 means 7-1/4 32nds.

A position in a claim is due to the accumulation of claim exchanges for receipt and delivery. The reports below shows
recipt of 41 units and delivery of 9 units leaving a net position of 32 units of June for receipt. The inverse is shown
for September, leaving the account with 32 units of June to deliver.

      Posted     Traded    Account                                                        Claim      Bot      Sld      Net       Traded      Decimal

  2017-05-22 2017-05-22      54321                                   2 Yr Note Futures Jun 2017       41        9       32      108-110  108.3437500
                                                                                                      41        9       32

  2017-05-22 2017-05-22      54321                                   2 Yr Note Futures Sep 2017        9        0        9      108-070  108.2187500
  2017-05-22 2017-05-22      54321                                   2 Yr Note Futures Sep 2017        0       41      -41      108-072  108.2265625
                                                                                                       9       41      -32

==== PositionNetting - Offsets

On any legal day of exchange, claims contracted for receipt and delivery may be netted through cancelation of offsetting
claim positions.

The execution reports above show 41 units of June contracted for receipt and 9 units of June contracted for delivery.The
net claim responsibility is receipt of 32 June. The differences between 41 and 32 is derived from offsetting 9 of 41
claim units through cancellation.

The following position netting fragment shows 9 units of both June and September offset. The difference in prices paid
and received can result in a profit or loss realized during offset. June was contracted for receipt and delivery at the
same price of 108-110 so offset generated neither a profit nor a loss. September was contracted for receipt at 108-070
and delivery at 108-072 for a 1/4 32nd difference in price, generating a 140.67 USD profit.

      Posted    Account                                                             Claim How          Bot          Sld       Done            PnL CCY

  2017-05-22      54321                                        2 Yr Note Futures Jun 2017 SCH      108-110      108-110          9           0.00 USD
                                                                                                                                 9           0.00

  2017-05-22      54321                                        2 Yr Note Futures Sep 2017 DAY      108-070      108-072          9         140.67 USD
                                                                                                                                 9         140.67

==== Position

The exchange of claims generates claim positions. The netting of positions may result in carried claims - also called
open positions. The following statement fragment shows open positions in June and September. The account remains
contracted to receive 32 June at a price of 108-110 and deliver 32 September at a price of 108-072.

Carried positions are subject to change in value with a settlement price marked for each claim each session. June is
marked at 108-110 and September at 108-07 (108.2187500). Open Trade Euqity (OTE) indicates the variation in the value of
the carried position given position size, price and mark. The September mark is below the contracted delivery price and
implies a possible profit of 500.16 USD as OTE.

      Posted     Traded    Account                                              Claim    Bot    Sld    Net        Price         Mark          OTE CCY

  2017-05-22 2017-05-22      54321                         2 Yr Note Futures Jun 2017     32      0     32      108-110  108.3437500         0.00 USD
                                                                                          32      0      0                                   0.00

  2017-05-22 2017-05-22      54321                         2 Yr Note Futures Sep 2017      0     32    -32      108-072  108.2187500       500.16 USD
                                                                                           0     32      0

==== Charge

The contracting claims has costs. The statement fragment below reflects service (SRV) and exchange (EXG) transaction
costs incurred by the account on the date posted. SRV charges were assessed at 0.035 USD per unit. EXG charges were
assessed at 0.12 USD per unit.

    Posted    Account                                                                                                        Memo       Amount CCY

  2017-05-22      54321                                                             2 Yr Note Futures Jun 2017 50 at 0.035 USD SRV         -1.75 USD
  2017-05-22      54321                                                              2 Yr Note Futures Jun 2017 50 at 0.12 USD EXG         -6.00 USD

  2017-05-22      54321                                                             2 Yr Note Futures Sep 2017 50 at 0.035 USD SRV         -1.75 USD
  2017-05-22      54321                                                              2 Yr Note Futures Sep 2017 50 at 0.12 USD EXG         -6.00 USD

==== Adjustment

Cash adjustments may be entered for an account that reflects an external accounting events such as credits or debits
outside the system, e.g., the rebate shown below. Adjustments may also reflect setup errors within the system, e.g.,
incorrect definition of a EXG unit cost.

      Posted    Account                                                         Memo     Amount CCY
  2017-05-22      54321                         Trader Development Rebate March 2017     548.00 EUR
  2017-05-22      54321              To adjust for incorrect coding of Exchange fees       0.02 USD

==== MoneyLine

Moeny balances are are deived from claim exchange, offset, charges and adjustments in the currency balances held as
appropriate to the accounted events. Each day, an account has a begnning balance from which a ledger balance is computed
via the application of charges, adjustments and realized profit and loss. A net liquidating balance is computed with the
application of OTE and cash to the ledger balance. Fianlly, a base currency balance in USD is computed using the sum of
held balances adjusted to reflect current foreign exchange rates.

Ledger Balance = Beginning + Charges + Adjustments + Profit or Loss

Net Liquidating Balance = Ledger Balance + OTE + Cash

      Posted    Account CCY  Seg Kind      Begin    Charges        Adj        PnL     Ledger        OTE       Cash        Net        Mark

  2017-05-22      54321 EUR SEGN HELD   -1727.29       0.00     548.00       0.00   -1179.29       0.00   -1179.29   -1179.29    1.125000
  2017-05-22      54321 USD SEGN HELD   65665.00    -333.51       0.02     772.04   66103.55     494.16   66597.71   66597.71    1.000000
  2017-05-22      54321 USD SEGB BASE   63721.80    -333.51     616.52     772.04   64776.85     494.16   65271.01   65271.01

=== Statement Information Access

The web user interface is the principal way through which statement information is accessed. Information can be shown
on-screen or via PDF and TXT file downloads. Screen presentation allows for CSV, XML and JSON representation download
also.

==== Screen

Statement information can be found for screen presentation at links similar to the following.

* Executions - http://jackijack.com/admin/statement_deal_leg_fills
* Nettings - http://jackijack.com/admin/statement_position_nettings
* Positions -http://jackijack.com/admin/statement_positions
* Charges - http://jackijack.com/admin/statement_charges
* Adjustments - http://jackijack.com/admin/statement_adjustments
* Balances - https://jackijack.com/admin/statement_money_lines

==== Print

Statement components assembled into PDF and TXT documents can be found via the Reports page http://jackijack.com/admin/reports.

Select filter with the following options for PDF representations of all daily account statements.

* Report Type: daily_account_statement
* Format Type: PDF

The set of reports can be further reduced using the following options.

* Memo: Contains <account number>
* Posted On: first date - last date

== Regulatory Reports

=== CFTC

=== CME

== Back Office Reports

== Cash Enteries & Adjustments - Cash Cards

An credit or debit that to account for an error can be recorded by filling outt he form at NEED AN IMAGE URL.

"http://s3.amazonaws.com/quietus_production/images/articles/14361/Slowdive_press_one_1390918257_crop_550x369.jpg"

Set the following properties.

* AdjustmentType: dropdown
* Account : dropdown
* Currency: dropdown
* Segregation: dropdown
* Amount: signed decimal
* Posted On: date select
* As of On: date select (optional)
* Memo: reason/description

The adjustment will be visible through the Adjustment URL https://jackijack.com/admin/adjustments.

Recording cash credits of debits driven by reasons other than error rectification can be made in the same way.

== Trade Enteries - Trade Cards

Accounting for claim exchange (trade) outside the pits or matching systems requires DealLegFill creation via the URL.

https://jackijack.com/admin/deal_leg_fills/new

Set the following properties.

* System - dropdown - BKO for Back Office enteries
* Dealing Venue - dropdown
* Account - dropdown
* Claim - dropdown
* Done - signed quantity of Claim units
* Price - decimal price
* Price Traded - price as traded
* Posted On: date selection
* Traded On: date selection

For fractionally traded claims the following guidlines are offered.

* CBT Soybeans, Corn, Wheat and KC Wheat with a decimal price of 3.6025 will have a traded price of 3.602, for 3.60-1/4.
* CBT Coupon Treasury Notes and Bonds will have traded prices like 108-047 witha decimal representation of 108.1484375.

Note that coupon prices have three digits for the tail.

== Position Transfers

A position transfer is just that: the transfer of a position from one account to another. It is not a trade entry.

Position transfer includes transfer of all econimic characteristics of the original exchange - dates and price - with
their accounting consequences. OTE for the transfered position will be derived from the original prices.

Transfer of a position includes a signed quantity of the associated Claim and the associated original price and dates.

https://jackijack.com/admin/position_transfers/new

Set the following properties.

*  fm_position_id :integer          not null
*  to_position_id :integer          not null
*  bot_transfered :decimal(, )      not null
*  sld_transfered :decimal(, )      not null
*  user_id        :integer          not null

== Data Maintenance

=== Accounts & Account Aliases

=== Charges

=== Claims & Claim Aliases

= Front Office Use


